NGINX Ingresswith Linkerd guide (#3993)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/tutorials/nginx-ingress-linkerd.md

---
title: NGINX Ingress Controller and Linkerd
description: |
  Use NGINX Ingress Controller with Linkerd
weight: 1800
doctypes: ["concept"]
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-1232"
---

# NGINX Ingress controller with Linkerd

This document will walk you through how to install NGINX Ingress controller with Linkerd. Linkerd works with both NGINX Ingress controller open source and NGINX Ingress controller plus version.

We are going to install the Linkderd sidecar proxy with NGINX Ingress controller.

> We need to install the `Linkerd` control plane utility.

Reviewer: Instead of saying "We need to install" have this section the a stepped section. 
For example
```
## Step 1 - Installing Linkerd
Follow steps outlined on the `Linkerd` [getting started](https://linkerd.io/2.13/getting-started/) page to installing the `Linkerd` control plane utility
```

Linkerd has a great document on how to install the linkerd control plane utility on their website.

> You can find the install steps on `Linkerd` website: [Linkerd Service mesh](https://linkerd.io/2.13/getting-started/)

Reviewer: Instead of saying "We need to install" have this section the a stepped section. 
For example
```
## Step 1 - Installing Linkerd
Follow steps outlined on the `Linkerd` [getting started](https://linkerd.io/2.13/getting-started/) page to installing the `Linkerd` control plane utility
```

> Once you have the `Linkerd` control plane utility installed, you will need to inject the NGINX Ingress controller deployment and your application with the `Linkerd` sidecar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the `Linkerd` control plane utility installed, inject the NGINX Ingress controller deployment and your application with the `Linkerd` sidecar.
```

We are going to use the NGINX Ingress controller custom resource definitions (CRDs) and take advantage of the advanced capabilites they provide.

We can install NGINX Ingress controller two ways: manfiets and with helm.

Using manifests:
You can install NGINX Ingress controller using our manifests from our documentation website.
[NGINX Ingress controller manifest installation](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/installation/installation-with-manifests/)

Once you have installed NGINX Ingress controller, you will need to inject the deployment with the `Linkerd` sidecar.
This is accomplished by using the `linkerd` control plane utility.

Here is an example:

```bash

> kubectl get deployment -n nginx-ingress nginx-ingress -oyaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get deployment -n nginx-ingress nginx-ingress -o yaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f
```

```

In the above example, my `NGINX Ingress controller` deployment is in the `nginx-ingress` namespace. Adjust accordingly to your environment.

If you are using `Helm`, you can inject the sidecar in two ways.

> 1. You can annotation your `Helm` depoloyment with the following annotation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Option 1. Annotation your `Helm` deployment with the following annotation:
```

Adding the the word "Option" here. When reading this someone might think this is Step 1 in doing something, and they might also do the 2nd option no realising that

Author: Added suggestions to doc.

```yaml
controller:
  pod:
    ## The annotations of the Ingress Controller pod.
    annotations: { linkerd.io/inject: enabled }
```

This annotation will tell `Linkerd` to automatically inject the sidecar during the install of NGINX Ingress controller using `helm`.

2. Inject the linkerd sidecar to an exisiting `helm` install

If you have an exisiting `Helm` install and want to inject the exisiting install, you can run the following:

```bash

> kubectl get deployment -n nginx-ingress <name_of_helm_release> -oyaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get deployment -n nginx-ingress <name_of_helm_release> -o yaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f
```

```

For example, in my lab I ran the following to inject my `helm` release named `kic01-nginx-ingress-controller` in the `nginx-ingress` namespace:

```bash

>  kubectl get deploy -n nginx-ingress kic01-nginx-ingress-controller -oyaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 kubectl get deploy -n nginx-ingress kic01-nginx-ingress-controller -o yaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f -
```

 ```

If we do a `kubectl get pods -n nginx-ingress` on the NGINX Ingress controller, we can see we now have `2/2` pods ready. That confirms that the `Linkerd` sidecar has been successfully injected into NGINX Ingress controller.

```bash

> kubectl get po -n nginx-ingress kic01-nginx-ingress-controller-5f8c9b586d-ng4r8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get pods -n nginx-ingress <ingress-controller-pod-name>
```

```bash
kubectl get deploy -n nginx-ingress kic01-nginx-ingress-controller -o yaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f -
```

## Testing the Integration

Once NGINX Ingress Controller has been integrated with Linkerd, we can check the number of pods to confirm that the sidecar has successfully injected.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n nginx-ingress

NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kic01-nginx-ingress-controller-5f8c9b586d-ng4r8   2/2     Running   0          30m
```

In the above example, `2/2` displays the number of pods, and confirms the `Linkerd` sidecar has successfully injected into NGINX Ingress Controller.

For additional testing, we can install an example application. In this case, we'll use the `httpbin` image.

```bash
kubectl create ns httpbin
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openservicemesh/osm-docs/release-v1.2/manifests/samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
kubectl apply -f httpbin.yaml
```

Once `httpbin` has been created and applied, we can inject it into an existing deployment with the following command:

> ```
> kubectl get deployment -n httpbin httpbin -oyaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
kubectl get deployment -n httpbin httpbin -o yaml | linkerd inject - | kubectl apply -f -
```
